Update Enabling Report Misbehavior plugin - Closes 1532 (#1861)
LiskHQ/lisk-docs: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/run-blockchain/enabling-misbehavior-report.adoc

= How to enable the "Report Misbehavior" plugin
Mona Bärenfänger <mona@lightcurve.io> Muhammad Talha <muhammad.talha@lightcurve.io>
// Settings
:toc: preamble
:toclevels: 5
:page-toclevels: 3
:idprefix:
:idseparator: -
:sectnums:
:experimental:

// External URLs
:url_plugin_report_misbehavior: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/modules/_liskhq_lisk_framework_report_misbehavior_plugin.html
:url_plugin_report_misbehavior_config: https://lisk.com/documentation/lisk-sdk/v6/references/typedoc/modules/_liskhq_lisk_framework_report_misbehavior_plugin.html#$config-options
// Project URLs
:url_guides_setup: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc
:url_guides_config: build-blockchain/configuration.adoc
:url_guides_config_hello: {url_guides_config}#example-configuration-for-the-hello-world-client
:url_cli_globally: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc#using-the-client-cli-globally
:url_pm2_conf: run-blockchain/process-management.adoc#using-a-json-config-file

> The {url_plugin_report_misbehavior}[Report Misbehavior plugin^] provides automatic detection of the validator's misbehavior and sends a `reportDelegateMisbehavior` transaction to the running node.

Reviewer: "delegate" sounds like old terminology, please update

> The plugin is designed to work with PoS based blockchains only.

Reviewer: Maybe you can add a little more info here what misbehavior exactly will be reported, and maybe refer to the corresponding LIP as well, in a footnote for example.

====
On this page, you'll learn:

* [x] Registration of the Report Misbehavior plugin to a blockchain client.
* [x] Authorizing an account to report misbehavior on the network.
====

> For this guide, the Report Misbehavior plugin is registered to the xref:{url_guides_setup}[Hello World application], though the steps mentioned below can be applied to any Lisk-based blockchain client.

Reviewer: Would also explain for Lisk Core, see comment below

 
[source,bash]
----
npm install --save @liskhq/lisk-framework-report-misbehavior-plugin
----

There are various ways to enable the Report Misbehavior plugin.
You can opt for any of the below-mentioned to register the plugin to the blockchain client.

[IMPORTANT]
====
It is essential to enable WS API and configure the `allowedMethods` property before registering the `ReportMisbehaviorPlugin`.
For more information, see the configurations described in the xref:{url_guides_config_hello}[configuration guide].
====

=== Registering via source
Now open the `plugins.ts` file, import the Report Misbehavior plugin, and register it with the application as shown below:

.src/app/plugins.ts
[source,typescript]
----
/* eslint-disable @typescript-eslint/no-empty-function */
import { ReportMisbehaviorPlugin } from '@liskhq/lisk-framework-report-misbehavior-plugin';
import { Application } from 'lisk-sdk';

export const registerPlugins = (app: Application): void => {
    app.registerPlugin(new ReportMisbehaviorPlugin());
};

----

Save and close the `plugins.ts` file.

After updating the *plugins.ts* file, build the blockchain client again:

[source,bash]
----
npm run build
----

> === Registering via PM2

Reviewer: Maybe rename it, as there are also other ways to set environment variables
```suggestion
=== Enabling via environment variable
```

Add the environment variable `LISK_ENABLE_REPORT_MISBEHAVIOR_PLUGIN` to the PM2 configuration for the `hello_client`:

NOTE: You can use the alias `*hello_client*` only if you have configured a global alias.
For more information see, xref:{url_cli_globally}[Using the Client CLI Globally].

> Otherwise, you can set up the `*pm2.conf.json*` file as suggested in the section: xref:{url_pm2_conf}[Using a JSON config file] for PM2.

Reviewer: I wouldn't include this info here, and keep it more general for other sidechains. Also, it is a little inconsistent with next section where we use `./bin/run` in the examples

Reviewer: Actually, in most cases users want to enable it on Lisk Core, so maybe we should include the respective examples. Either as tabs, starting with Lisk Core examples followed by SDK, or replace the existing examples with Lisk Core

.pm2.conf.json
[source,json]
----
{
  "name": "hello_client",
  "script": "hello_client start --overwrite-config",
  "env": {
    "LISK_NETWORK": "testnet",
    "LISK_CONFIG_FILE": "~/.lisk/hello_client/config/custom-config.json",
    "LISK_ENABLE_REPORT_MISBEHAVIOR_PLUGIN": true
  }
}
----

> == Starting the node

Reviewer: I would restructure this section to already be included separately in the above examples

Depending on how you chose to register the plugin, start the blockchain client, accordingly.

[tabs]
=====
Registered via Source::
+
--

.Start the blockchain client with custom_config.json
[source,bash]
----
./bin/run start --config=config/custom_config.json 
----
--
Registered via PM2::
+
--
After configuring the *pm2.conf.json* file, you can start the client like this:

.Start blockchain client using the process manager PM2
[source,bash]
----
pm2 start pm2.conf.json
----
--
Registered via built-in flag::
+
--
It is possible to enable the Report Misbehavior plugin without updating the `plugins.ts` file or using PM2.
This can be done simply by adding the `--enable-report-misbehavior-plugin` flag to the `start` command.

.Start the blockchain client with designated flags
[source,bash]
----
./bin/run start --config=config/custom_config.json --enable-report-misbehavior-plugin
----
--
=====

== Authorizing an account

=== Choose the sender account

> The plugin uses a specified sender account to sign the `reportDelegateMisbehavior` transactions.

Reviewer: outdated terminology

:url_consensus_bft_punishment: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/1e27a5ba99a55d71e6d83f44b6e21f18dda98741/proposals/lip-0024.md
:url_rep_mis_transaction: https://github.com/LiskHQ/lips/blob/1e27a5ba99a55d71e6d83f44b6e21f18dda98741/proposals/lip-0057.md#report-misbehavior

// Project URLs
:url_guides_setup: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc
:url_guides_config: build-blockchain/configuration.adoc
:url_guides_config_hello: {url_guides_config}#example-configuration-for-the-hello-world-client
:url_cli_globally: build-blockchain/create-blockchain-client.adoc#using-the-client-cli-globally
:url_pm2_conf: run-blockchain/process-management.adoc#using-a-json-config-file
:url_core_index: v4@lisk-core::index.adoc

:fn_lip24: footnote:witness[The LIP: {url_consensus_bft_punishment}[Punish BFT violations^] provides the details regarding the implications of {url_rep_mis_transaction}[Report Misbehavior^] transaction.]

The {url_plugin_report_misbehavior}[Report Misbehavior plugin^] provides automatic detection of a validator's misbehavior and sends the `reportMisbehavior` transaction to the running node.

> This transaction contains the information necessary to prove that the validator who signed the {url_blocks_header}[block headers^] has violated the {url_consensus_bft}[Lisk-BFT consensus protocol^] and is deemed to be punished{fn_lip24} once proven guilty.

Author: If you run the command `reportMisbehavior`, it expects two header values to be passed to it, which is why I have mentioned the headers to be specific.

> This transaction contains the information necessary to prove that the validator who signed the {url_blocks_header}[block headers^] has violated the {url_consensus_bft}[Lisk-BFT consensus protocol^] and is deemed to be punished{fn_lip24} once proven guilty.

Reviewer: In this case, I would rephrase it to make it clearer, and also, please replace link to block header with internal link to https://liskhq.github.io/lisk-docs/beta/understand-blockchain/blocks-txs.html#block-header

```suggestion
This transaction contains two xref:{}[block headers] necessary to prove that the validator who generated the blocks has violated the {url_consensus_bft}[Lisk-BFT consensus protocol^] and is deemed to be punished{fn_lip24} once proven guilty.
```

> This transaction contains the information necessary to prove that the validator who signed the {url_blocks_header}[block headers^] has violated the {url_consensus_bft}[Lisk-BFT consensus protocol^] and is deemed to be punished{fn_lip24} once proven guilty.

Author: ```suggestion
This transaction contains two xref:{url_blocks_header}[block headers] that are necessary to prove that the validator who generated the blocks has violated the {url_consensus_bft}[Lisk-BFT consensus protocol^] and is deemed to be punished{fn_lip24} once proven guilty.
```

====
On this page, you'll learn:

* [x] Registration of the Report Misbehavior plugin to a blockchain client.
* [x] Authorizing an account to report misbehavior on the network.
====

Using this guide, the Report Misbehavior plugin can be registered to a xref:{url_core_index}[Lisk Core] or a xref:{url_guides_setup}[Hello World application] node, though the steps mentioned below can be applied to any Lisk-based blockchain client.

== Plugin registration

> With the latest version of Lisk Core v4 and Lisk SDK v6, the default plugins come pre-installed after an client is installed or initiated, respectively.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the latest version of Lisk Core v4 and Lisk SDK v6, the default plugins come pre-installed after a client is installed or initiated, respectively.
```

> For a sidechain, you can check the `package.json` file of the blockchain client to ensure the installation.

Reviewer: This is also valid for Lisk Core.

```suggestion
You can check the `package.json` file of the blockchain client to ensure the installation.
```

.hello_client/package.json
[source,json]
----
"dependencies": {
  //[...]
	"@liskhq/lisk-framework-report-misbehavior-plugin": "0.3.0",
	//[...]
},
----

Otherwise, you can install the Report Misbehavior plugin like this:
 
[source,bash]
----
npm install --save @liskhq/lisk-framework-report-misbehavior-plugin
----

There are various ways to enable the Report Misbehavior plugin.
You can opt for any of the below-mentioned to register the plugin to the blockchain client.

[IMPORTANT]
====

> It is essential to enable WS API and configure the `allowedMethods` property before registering the `ReportMisbehaviorPlugin`.

Reviewer: How exactly should it be configured for the plugin? Please elaborate.

Author: Ummmm! it's mentioned in the URL referenced in the next line.

Reviewer: In the URL we explain to set allowedMethods to "*", but here for the guide we should mention the specific methods that should be enabled for this plugin to work correctly.

For more information, see the configurations described in the xref:{url_guides_config_hello}[configuration guide].
====

=== Registering via source

> For a *sidechain*, It is possible to register the plugin through the `plugins.ts` file.

Author: `lisk-core` comes pre-configured with the default plugins. There is no `plugins.ts` file in `lisk-core` which can be edited to register a plugin via source.

> For a *sidechain*, It is possible to register the plugin through the `plugins.ts` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For blockchain clients that were initialized with Lisk Commander, it is possible to register the plugin through the `plugins.ts` file.
```
